Write a 1,300-1,500-word essay that presents a single event or episode as vividly as possible to make a public point. That is to say, your essay should use personal reflection to affect how your readers think or act. Use your narration and interpretation of the event (and perhaps a reflection on your own role) to make a larger point that is relevant to the general reader. Remember that all essays should be written as if for a wide audience and should be non-fiction and true.
Write an essay of 1,300 to 1,500 words portraying a place of importance to you. The essay should be vivid, precise, engaging, and capable of leaving the reader with a unified impression of the place and its significance. You should guide the reader to an understanding of this place through your selection of details and tone. You’re probably better off thinking small or specific – stretch of beach or woods, a restaurant or building (an entire state or country would be tough). Don’t assume your audience is familiar with it, or you. And feel free to use data, history, real dialogue and sensory details to make it come alive.
Write an essay of no more than 1,500 words that investigates and comments on some aspect of contemporary culture. Both “aspect” and “culture” may be broadly defined. It could be a cultural phenomenon or a moral issue. Make your subject vivid and interesting to a reader who may know nothing about it; and make a fresh argument about what it reveals about some portion of contemporary culture.
Write a humorous essay of 1,100-1,300 words that says something about modern life. You may want to model it on one of the essays we read: a personal essay that highlights the absurd or troubling in an everyday situation; a parody (or travesty) of a cultural artifact; or an ironic essay that serves as social commentary. As you select your subject ask yourself what broader point you wish to make. Don’t be trivial or silly – we all know Bachelorette is an easy target of derision – your aim is to be edgy and surprising. NOTE: This time, your essay does not have to be true and verifiable. But it should be based on something true.